I’m sure everyone has memories of car journeys and some of those aren’t particularly fond
memories. My friends always used to roll their eyes when they discussed their family car
journeys. Nevertheless, please join me on a trip down memory lane and explore the
intricacies of time. That sounds like time travel or some kind of magic and I suppose that’s
exactly what this is, but it’s also exactly what it isn’t.

Being a family of six, our journeys were never dull, that’s for sure. Endless games of I spy
fuelled the journey, listing just about everything from our home town right into Cemaes.
Travel sickness seems to be the standout of our journeys, which would annoyingly postpone
our arrival. Anti-sickness tablets made myself and my sister feel sick at the smell of them,
the wristbands just added an extra annoying layer of fabric onto us and distracting ourselves
was never any use. Sometimes, we’d make it most of the way and just as I imagine
everyone started celebrating the fact that we’d gone a whole journey without any inclusion of
vomit, I’d be asking if we could pull over. Lovely, I know.

I dreamed of passing my driving test for so long just so I could drive to Cemaes Bay myself..
I recently drove there for the first time myself for the day. I bought plenty of snacks for the
journey and the sun shone the whole way there. Although I was the adult driving, the child
within me came to life. As soon as I could see the sea, my soul set alight. I was glad to see
the end of national speed limit to forty mile an hour speed changes and bendy, hilly roads
and even more glad to be breathing in fresh Cemaes air. As I sat down on a bench
overlooking the beach with an icy soft drink, I sighed and remembered the arrival we used to
have at Nanna’s house.

Eventually, games of I spy would trail off to an end and we would spot familiar sights that
signposted that we were almost at Nanna’s. The car would trundle up the hill her house
proudly topped and as the handbrake clicked on, she would shuffle through to her porch to
greet us. We’d have Lotus biscuits, fresh apple juice and Mum and Dad had tea served from
her china tea pot with matching cups and saucers. There is now a Lotus biscoff hype, but me
and my family got on that years ago. It’s not just because the biscuits taste nice, it’s because
that was our sign that we were with Nanna. It was a tradition. Lotus biscuits still sometimes
get referred to as ‘Nanna biscuits’ in my house, and I love that. I never want to let it go.
Biscoff flavoured anything will never beat the comfort the proper biscuits brought me.

Nanna’s house was always warm. In Summer, the heating would still be on. The warmth
mixed with the soft, powdery smell of her home made it feel like my home. Me and my
siblings had our room there, which consisted of two beds and a fold out camp bed. To be
honest, the camp bed felt like the best one in the room. It was different to any bed I’d ever
slept in and of course, as a child (and admittedly even sometimes now), different equals fun.
The beds were always made impeccably with thick duvets, plump pillows and an extra
blanket at the end and there were beautiful old-fashioned teddies perched on them. Even the
teddies smelled like Nanna and I hope that they always will. Some people might squirm at
this, but I hope they never get washed so their perfume can be her scent. Then, her scent
will always remain: eternal perfume. Some people hate ‘old people’ scents, but Nanna’s was
so reassuring. It was cosy, just like the nights we’d all get comfortable and watch Chitty
Chitty Bang Bang in her living room.

What lay outside Nanna’s home was almost as perfect as her bungalow. She had an
amazing big living room window from which there was a perfect view of the beach. You could
also spot the harbour and buildings that lay in the distance. The beach was audible from
Nanna’s house, from the waves rolling to the seagulls crying above. It was always so
amazing that her house overlooked the beach – it kind of watched it, protected it and that is
the perfect way to describe Nanna. I always knew she was there for me and she would
never let anything bad happen to the family on her watch. I always compare Nanna’s home
to her and they were truly a perfect match, both full of love and warmth.

We had many adventures in the gorgeous village that lay beyond the living room window. As
a family, we enjoyed many walks down the Nature Trail, a muddy path that led to many
treasures. If I had a pound for every game of pooh sticks we played at the stream there, I
would definitely be rich. Sometimes, we’d leave Mum and Nanna at home and embark on a
longer adventure at the Nature Trail to the Brickworks. When I was younger, that journey felt
endless, like the path to it just refused to end. Now, I realise that it is a relatively short walk.
My Dad knows his history and I don’t tell him this enough, but I am grateful for that. It can be
interesting to know what’s behind a place and the Brickworks were central to me learning
this, as in such a small village, I would never have expected such rich history.

Of course, we visited the beach all of the time too. Nanna would always plead for us to take
hats, gloves and scarves, no matter the weather, and check that we had buckets and
spades. That beach will always be my favourite because of everything that happened there.
It was magical, just like Cemaes still is to me in my adult life. I’d make mermaid chairs and
be convinced a mermaid would use it overnight. I’d find rings made out of seashells missing
a middle with my sister: free seaside jewellery. I’d find strangely coloured and shaped stones
to treasure at home in little trinket boxes that could always transport me right back to the
beach just from looking at them. I’d pick up conch shells and solemnly swear I could hear the
sea through them.

Notice how I reeled off all of those precious memories? I suppose everyone who’s lost
someone they love has gone through something similar to this: wondering what they would
have wanted, possible erasure of upsetting memories and the guilt for only wanting to
remember the good times. For example, I remember my Nanna going from Cemaes into a
care home, but not this transition in time or the exact reasons for this. I’m sure if I could ask
my Nanna, she’d be thrilled that I effortlessly discuss all of the happy times we shared. I’m
sure she wouldn’t want me to remember the harder times. I’m sure that maybe I was just too
young to be told everything, but now it leaves me questioning time – how, exactly, do parts of
time go missing to you? How does your brain filter through the time in your life and figure
which moments of time to keep? Do you have teddies you can hold close whenever you
need you that whizz you back into your past?