On a non-uniform day in Year Thirteen, one of the girls in my form wore an oversized jumper
that slid slightly down her shoulder. Our form tutor locked his eyes on her from the moment
she entered the classroom. ‘Sir, when are you registering us?’ a member of the form group
asked.

‘Sorry, one moment,’ he replied. ‘Can I remind everyone, please, that on non-uniform day,
you are expected to wear appropriate clothing at all times. Thank you.’

A sigh rippled through the room and we all looked down at our outfits. Our tutor nodded over
to the girl in the comfortable jumper, eyebrows raised and glasses perched on the end of his
nose. We already knew what he was going to say next: or else it could be a distraction to
you or your peers’ learning.

I turned to the person next to me, frowned and whispered, ‘What’s so exciting about a
shoulder anyway?’

A quick Google search on UK school uniform will uncover lists of rules which mainly target
female pupils. I tried searching ‘UK sexist school uniform’. Many headlines resulted from
these few words, such as ‘School Uniform is Sexist and Policing it Wastes Valuable Time’,
‘Parents Slam ‘sexist’ Consett School Over Uniform Policy’ and ‘Girls Blast ‘sexism’ and
Demand Uniform Equality in Top City School’. Try this yourself, perhaps even play with the
wording of your search and see what you discover. Then, compare this to a uniform policy
on a school website and you will find that female pupils are given a tiresome list of specific
orders. Perhaps my tutor saw these as film titles and dreamed of starring in one.

For example, my former high school recently changed its uniform. Parents were forced to kit
out their children with new blazers and ties, banning them from saving money by using the
previous year’s blazer. Parents would have to drag their darling children out of the door and
listen to them whine the whole time they shopped. Rules stated that the girls had to wear the
new grey checked skirts, made to be longer than supermarkets’ school skirts. Another
command was that girls must wear black tights, because the knee high socks that were
previously allowed suddenly revealed too much skin. This rule still applies in Summer,
because it’s only fair that everyone should be fully covered in 20֯C heat. Rather than
spending its slim budget on improving the infrastructure of the school, funds were thrown
into making a brand new uniform. Of course. There are basic rules for other pupils to follow,
like shirt colour, colour of their trousers, shoes, hair cuts, etc. At least male pupils could still
wear shorts in the Summer, should they wish to.

Laura Bates wrote an article for The Guardian: ‘School dress codes reinforce the message
that women’s bodies are dangerous’. Even if your initial reaction to this title is to call her a
snowflake, take a minute to sit down with those words (you can even do so with a cup of tea
if you like), dissect the title as a whole and then come back to me. Why are shoulders not
allowed to be seen in school? Why else would a uniform be changed? Why else would
schools be so strict on gendered rules? UK schools, my list of questions for you are
endless.

One day, the head of Sixth Form sent out an e-mail reading ‘Dear Sixth Formers, due to
breaches of our Sixth Form rules, there will be an emergency assembly tomorrow morning at
08:30. I expect full attendance. Thank you.’ I messaged my friends as we tried (and failed) to
get to the bottom of what happened. Had someone assaulted a teacher? Had someone
attacked a fellow student? Surely we would have already heard about that. Surely we can’t
have been in danger at school? The head of Sixth Form rarely held assemblies; it was
always a different member of staff. She was always busy in the morning strutting down the
corridors sipping on her coffee and shaking her head at students. It turned out that my group
of friends and I had forgotten that we were the dangerous ones.

The next morning, I took my seat in the hall. A PowerPoint was displayed on the projector
screen, displaying ‘SIXTH FORM DRESS CODE POLICY’ in bold. Five minutes later, the
assembly started with a sigh from the head of sixth form. ‘I am sick of your sheer disrespect
for the Sixth Form community. The dress code is here for a reason and some of you clearly
can’t read it. To help you out, I will go through it this morning.’ She cleared her throat and
moved the PowerPoint onto its next slide, which listed gendered rules.

‘So, Sixth Formers, if I find any more rules being broken after this assembly, you will be sent
home to think about your choices. Sophie, Rebecca, Annalise, come to the front please.’

The girls shuffled to the front of the hall, their shoes squeaking on the polished floor. Every
girl in that hall had no idea how to act: what if we were called up?

‘These are perfect examples of how to disrespect our community. Girls, do you really think
skirts of this length are appropriate? How could you expect to be taken seriously in the
workplace if you were wearing these? School is really not the place for this.’

In other words, ‘Girls, your bodies are dangerous. You can’t have a body if you come to
school.’ She moved them by their shoulders into a line, scanning them from head to toe.

‘Rebecca, you could do with cleaning your shoes as well. Come on, basic presentation.
Okay, back to your seats.’

‘You okay, Bec?’ I asked as Rebecca returned to her seat next to me.

‘Not being funny, I’m barely committing a crime am I?’ she replied.

Her cheeks burned red. She untucked her hair from behind her ears and stared down at her
hands, picking at the red raw skin around her fingernails. Once people manage to escape
from school, many of them will be making their way into the oh-so-exciting world of work.
Some even manage to secure a job whilst they are finishing their studies; they have the
dazzling privilege of balancing revision, homework, family life, a social life and work. I
applied for my first job when I was in Sixth Form to allow me to save for a car and kept
everything crossed in the hopes that I would find a job just like my friends had.

At my first job interview, I was welcomed by the general manager of the restaurant. ‘Hello,
nice to meet you. I’m the general manager. I’ll be putting you with one of our employees so
you can get to know the job – you’ll be shadowing her. I just want a quick chat first.’ He then
took me up some stairs to the back of the restaurant, pulled out a chair on a table for two,
then took his seat opposite.

‘Nice to meet you.’ I shook his hand and forced a smile, worried that he’d sense my nerves.

‘I am very pleased by your appearance. I like to hire people who please me.’

I waited for the speech about the importance of customer service, my availability and my
work experience. I would be attentive to every customer anyway, but I was looking forward to
dazzling the general manager with the research I’d done on the company. I spent over half
an hour of my free period in school trying to think of a question to ask at the end of my
interview. After all, I really needed the job so that I could start to build my savings and
hopefully even have a life one day.

Taking the job meant that I had to get the bus, but this was a sacrifice I was willing to make
in order to avoid the hour-long walk. I would wear my uniform on my journey to work
because this is all a uniform is: clothes. To be honest, it was also to save me the job of
getting changed in work – would I even have time to get changed there? The uniform was
simply a red blouse, a black knee-length bodycon skirt, sheer black tights and sensible black
flats. I liked the uniform. It was the first time I actually felt smart and professional and I was
so proud of myself for getting a job.

On the day of my first shift, I rushed in from school, dumped my bag in the porch and quickly
got changed. I then curled my hair before scraping it back into a sleek ponytail and put some
makeup on. Remember: you need to keep pleasing him. I plugged my earphones into my
phone and popped one of the buds in. I headed for the bus stop, which was only a mere five
minutes from home. On my short walk, I was wolf whistled by a man in what looked like his
work van. His filthy work van, blanketed by black dust. Cigarette smoke drifted out of the
window.

‘Nice arse!’ he shouted.

I rolled my eyes, turning my music up and fumbling with my second earphone so I could put
that in also.

He slowed to a stop.

‘Oi, I was talking to you!’

He got no reply. I heard that he was talking to me and that was why I actively chose to put
both earphones in, but he must have been blind to that.

‘You’re not as much fun as you look, that’s for sure.’

‘Fuck off.’

He drove off, revving his engine. Maybe he got off to the sound of his decaying engine, but
as someone who didn’t have a clue about cars, I couldn’t have cared any less. By the way,
the way to bag someone is not (and never will be) by wolf whistling and shouting something
like ‘Nice arse!’. It certainly didn’t win me over, anyway. My uniform accentuated my figure, I
get that, but I felt confident in it and I didn’t need a man’s opinion, especially from one who
was at least three times my age. It’s funny that when I was younger, I used to wonder why
my friends received wolf whistles when we went to shops after school and I didn’t. Now, at
the age of twenty, wolf whistles are one of the banes of my existence.
When I told my colleagues what had happened on my way in, one of them said ‘Why don’t
you just wear something comfortable on the bus and get changed here? It’s a dangerous
world.’

In fact, honey, it’s not a dangerous world. I admit that there is a lot of evil, but think about
how much good there is too. There’s just dangerous people in the world. If you ever find
yourself in an uncomfortable situation, don’t be afraid to do something about it. Sexual
harassment is defined as ‘unwanted behaviour of a sexual nature which violates your dignity,
makes you feel intimidated, degraded or humiliated and creates an intimidating, hostile,
degrading humiliating or hostile environment’. If this happens to you, be aware that there is
help out there: text the British Transport Police on 61016 if you are sexually harassed on
public transport, call Citizen’s Advice – Sexual Discrimination and Harassment at Work on
0800 144 8838, Victim Support on 08 08 16 89 111. Visit the following link to find out more

information about support for sexual harassment:

https://www.itv.com/thismorning/articles/sexual-harassment-helplines.